Docs correction. Installation and Run Federation sections (#256)
intel/openfl: docs/running_the_federation.rst

The following are workflows you can consider when creating a federated learning setup.

:doc:`source/workflow/director_based_workflow`
    A federation created with this workflow continues to be available to distribute more experiments in series.

:doc:`source/workflow/running_the_federation.agg_based`
    With this workflow, the federation is terminated when the experiment is finished.

.. # Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Intel Corporation
.. # SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

.. _director_workflow:

************************

> Director-Based Workflow

Reviewer: Duplication? 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/89856652/145292547-611d518b-7b56-4af8-97f1-4c7dd1d81cdb.png)

- The *Envoy* runs on collaborator nodes connected to the *Director*. When the *Director* starts an experiment, the *Envoy* starts the *Collaborator* to train the global model.

The director-based workflow comprises the following roles and their tasks:

    - :ref:`establishing_federation_director`
    - :ref:`establishing_federation_envoy`
    - :ref:`establishing_federation_experiment_manager`

Follow the procedure in the director-based workflow to become familiar with the setup required and APIs provided for each role in the federation: *Director manager*, *Collaborator manager*, and *Experiment manager (data scientist)*.

.. note::
    The Open Federated Learning (|productName|) interactive Python API enables the Experiment manager (data scientists) to define and start a federated learning experiment from a single entry point: a Jupyter\*\  notebook or a Python\*\  script.

    See :doc:`director_based_workflow.interactive_api` for details.

An overview of this workflow is shown below.

> .. figure:: ../openfl/static_diagram.svg

Reviewer: The picture is not displayed
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/89856652/145292952-98b0af0d-c075-4685-a11f-6061d58a64e7.png)

.. centered:: Overview of the Director-Based Workflow

.. # Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Intel Corporation
.. # SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

.. _establishing_federation_director:

> Director Manager: Set Up the Director

Reviewer: Also duplicated section with `openfl/docs/source/workflow/director_based_workflow.roles.rst` file, why not just change this file?

Author: Could you please review the content. This duplicate can help you to see the difference between versions. Before merge all of them will be deleted

.. _step1_start_the_envoy:

STEP 2: Start the Envoy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Create an Envoy workspace with a default config file and shard descriptor Python\*\  script.

    .. code-block:: console
        fx envoy create-workspace -p path/to/envoy_workspace_dir

2. Modify the Envoy config file and local shard descriptor template.

    - Provide the settings field with the arbitrary settings required to initialize the shard descriptor.
    - Complete the shard descriptor template field with the address of the local shard descriptor class.

    .. note::
        The shard descriptor is an object to provide a unified data interface for FL experiments.
        The shard descriptor implements :code:`get_dataset()` method as well as several additional
        methods to access **sample shape**, **target shape**, and **shard description** that may be used to identify
        participants during experiment definition and execution.

        :code:`get_dataset()` method accepts the dataset_type (for instance train, validation, query, gallery) and returns
        an iterable object with samples and targets.

>         MyShardDescriptor should be inherent from :code:`openfl.interface.interactive_api.shard_descriptor.ShardDescriptor`. It should implements :code:`get_dataset`, :code:`sample_shape` and :code:`target_shape` methods o describe the way data samples and labels will be loaded from disk during training.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        User shard descriptor should be inherent from :code:`openfl.interface.interactive_api.shard_descriptor.ShardDescriptor`. It should implements :code:`get_dataset`, :code:`sample_shape` and :code:`target_shape` methods o describe the way data samples and labels will be loaded from disk during training.
```

- The *Director* is the central node of the federation. This component starts an *Aggregator* for each experiment, sends data to connected collaborator nodes, and provides updates on the status.
- The *Envoy* runs on collaborator nodes connected to the *Director*. When the *Director* starts an experiment, the *Envoy* starts the *Collaborator* to train the global model.

The director-based workflow comprises the following roles and their tasks:

    - :ref:`establishing_federation_director`
    - :ref:`establishing_federation_envoy`
    - :ref:`establishing_federation_experiment_manager`

Follow the procedure in the director-based workflow to become familiar with the setup required and APIs provided for each role in the federation: *Director manager*, *Collaborator manager*, and *Experiment manager (data scientist)*.

.. note::
    The Open Federated Learning (|productName|) interactive Python API enables the Experiment manager (data scientists) to define and start a federated learning experiment from a single entry point: a Jupyter\*\  notebook or a Python\*\  script.

>     See :doc:`director_based_workflow.interactive_api` for details.

Reviewer: ```
WARNING: unknown document: director_based_workflow.interactive_api
```
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/89856652/145547025-f19a3fc6-2807-40a1-9d50-0aceb7e2467a.png)

An overview of this workflow is shown below.

.. figure:: ../openfl/static_diagram.svg

.. centered:: Overview of the Director-Based Workflow

.. # Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Intel Corporation
.. # SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

.. _establishing_federation_director:

Director Manager: Set Up the Director
=====================================

The *Director manager* sets up the *Director*, which is the central node of the federation.

    - :ref:`optional_step_create_pki_using_step_ca`

>     - :ref:`step0_install_director_prerequisites`

Reviewer: STEP 0,  STEP 1 looks strange
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/89856652/145547601-45a9850f-2ee6-4dc3-abf9-a5cafaeff6df.png)
May be it is better to leave old version? (STEP 1, STEP 2, STEP 3), or just OPTIONAL,  STEP 1 STEP 2

    - :ref:`step1_start_the_director`

.. _optional_step_create_pki_using_step_ca:

OPTIONAL STEP: Create PKI Certificates Using Step-CA (Optional)
--------------------------------------------------------

The use of mutual Transport Layer Security (mTLS) is recommended for deployments in untrusted environments to establish participant identity and to encrypt communication. You may either import certificates provided by your organization or generate certificates with the :ref:`semi-automatic PKI <semi_automatic_certification>` provided by |productName|.

.. _step0_install_director_prerequisites:

STEP 0: Install Open Federated Learning (|productName|)
-------------------------------------------------------

Install |productName| in a virtual Python\*\  environment. See :ref:`install_package` for details.

.. _step1_start_the_director:

STEP 1: Start the Director
--------------------------

Start the Director on a node with at least two open ports. See :ref:`openfl_ll_components` to learn more about the Director entity.

1. Create a Director workspace with a default config file.

>     .. code-block:: console

Reviewer: Please, add blank line due to 
```
openfl/docs/running_the_federation.rst:91: WARNING: Error in "code-block" directive:
maximum 1 argument(s) allowed, 6 supplied.

.. code-block:: console
    fx director create-workspace -p path/to/director_workspace_dir
```

        fx director create-workspace -p path/to/director_workspace_dir

 This workspace will contain received experiments and supplementary files (Director config file and certificates).

2. Modify the Director config file according to your federation setup.

 The default config file contains the Director node FQDN, an open port, path of certificates, and :code:`sample_shape` and :code:`target_shape` fields with string representation of the unified data interface in the federation.

3. Start the Director.

 If mTLS protection is not set up, run this command.

>     .. code-block:: console

Reviewer: Please, add blank line

btw, for now it looks like:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/89856652/145553587-ec1224b7-6690-4afb-8c3d-4ddde87957a9.png)

       fx director start --disable-tls -c director_config.yaml

 If you have a federation with PKI certificates, run this command.

>     .. code-block:: console

Reviewer: Please, add blank line

            -oc cert/open.crt

.. _establishing_federation_envoy:

Collaborator Manager: Set Up the Envoy
======================================

The *Collaborator manager* sets up the *Envoys*, which are long-lived components on collaborator nodes. When started, Envoys will try to connect to the Director. Envoys receive an experiment archive and provide access to local data.

    - :ref:`optional_step_sign_pki_envoy`
    - :ref:`step0_install_envoy_prerequisites`
    - :ref:`step1_start_the_envoy`

.. _optional_step_sign_pki_envoy:

OPTIONAL STEP: Sign PKI Certificates (Optional)
--------------------------------------------------------

The use of mTLS is recommended for deployments in untrusted environments to establish participant identity and to encrypt communication. You may either import certificates provided by your organization or use the :ref:`semi-automatic PKI certificate <semi_automatic_certification>` provided by |productName|.

.. _step0_install_envoy_prerequisites:

STEP 0: Install |productName|
-----------------------------

Install |productName| in a Python\*\ virtual environment. See :ref:`install_package` for details.

.. _step1_start_the_envoy:

> STEP 3: Start the Envoy

Reviewer 2: STEP 1. Or STEP 0 -> STEP 1 and this one should be second.

-----------------------

1. Create an Envoy workspace with a default config file and shard descriptor Python\*\  script.

>     .. code-block:: console

Reviewer: Please, add blank line

        fx envoy create-workspace -p path/to/envoy_workspace_dir

2. Modify the Envoy config file and local shard descriptor template.

    - Provide the settings field with the arbitrary settings required to initialize the shard descriptor.
    - Complete the shard descriptor template field with the address of the local shard descriptor class.

    .. note::
        The shard descriptor is an object to provide a unified data interface for FL experiments.
        The shard descriptor implements :code:`get_dataset()` method as well as several additional
        methods to access **sample shape**, **target shape**, and **shard description** that may be used to identify
        participants during experiment definition and execution.

        :code:`get_dataset()` method accepts the dataset_type (for instance train, validation, query, gallery) and returns
        an iterable object with samples and targets.

>         MyShardDescriptor should be inherent from :code:`openfl.interface.interactive_api.shard_descriptor.ShardDescriptor`. It should implements :code:`get_dataset`, :code:`sample_shape` and :code:`target_shape` methods o describe the way data samples and labels will be loaded from disk during training.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        MyShardDescriptor should be inherited from :code:`openfl.interface.interactive_api.shard_descriptor.ShardDescriptor`. It should implement :code:`get_dataset`, :code:`sample_shape` and :code:`target_shape` methods to describe the way data samples and labels will be loaded from disk during training.
```

3. Start the Envoy.

 If mTLS protection is not set up, run this command.

>     .. code-block:: console

Reviewer: Please, add blank line

        ENVOY_NAME=envoy_example_name

        fx envoy start \
            -n "$ENVOY_NAME" \
            --disable-tls \
            --envoy-config-path envoy_config.yaml \
            -dh director_fqdn \
            -dp port

 If you have a federation with PKI certificates, run this command.

>     .. code-block:: console

Reviewer: Please, add blank line

        ENVOY_NAME=envoy_example_name

        fx envoy start \
            -n "$ENVOY_NAME" \
            --envoy-config-path envoy_config.yaml \
            -dh director_fqdn \
            -dp port \
            -rc cert/root_ca.crt \
            -pk cert/"$ENVOY_NAME".key \
            -oc cert/"$ENVOY_NAME".crt

.. _establishing_federation_experiment_manager:

Experiment Manager: Describe an Experiment
==========================================

The process of defining an experiment is decoupled from the process of establishing a federation.
The Experiment manager (or data scientist) is able to prepare an experiment in a Python environment.
Then the Experiment manager registers experiments into the federation using :ref:`Interactive Python API <interactive_api>`

> that is allow to communicate with Director using a gRPC client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that is allow to communicate with the Director using a gRPC client.
```

.. _running_the_federation_aggregator_based:

*************************
Aggregator-Based Workflow
*************************

An overview of this workflow is shown below.

.. figure:: /images/openfl_flow.png

.. centered:: Overview of the Aggregator-Based Workflow

There are two ways to run federation without Director:

- :ref:`Bare metal approach <running_the_federation_manual>`
- :ref:`Docker approach <running_the_federation_docker>`

This workflow uses short-lived components in a federation, which is terminated when the experiment is finished. The components are as follows:

> - The *Collaborator* uses a local dataset to train a global model and the *Aggregator* receives model updates from *Collaborators* and aggregate them to create the new global model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The *Collaborator* uses a local dataset to train a global model and the *Aggregator* receives model updates from *Collaborators* and aggregates them to create the new global model.
```

- The *Aggregator* is framework-agnostic, while the *Collaborator* can use any deep learning frameworks, such as `TensorFlow <https://www.tensorflow.org/>`_\* \  or `PyTorch <https://pytorch.org/>`_\*\.

For this workflow, you modify the federation workspace to your requirements by editing the Federated Learning plan (FL plan) along with the Python\*\  code that defines the model and the data loader. The FL plan is a `YAML <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML>`_ file that defines the collaborators, aggregator, connections, models, data, and any other parameters that describe the training.

.. _plan_settings:

******************************************
Federated Learning Plan (FL Plan) Settings
******************************************

.. note::
    Use the Federated Learning plan (FL plan) to modify the federation workspace to your requirements in an **aggregator-based workflow**.

The FL plan is described by the **plan.yaml** file located in the **plan** directory of the workspace.

Each YAML top-level section contains the following subsections:

> - ``template``: The name of the class including top-level packages names. An instance of this class is created when plan gets initialized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``template``: The name of the class including top-level packages names. An instance of this class is created when the plan gets initialized.
```

- ``settings``: The arguments that are passed to the class constructor.
- ``defaults``: The file that contains default settings for this subsection.

>   Any setting from defaults file can be overriden in the **plan.yaml** file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Any setting from the default file can be overridden in the **plan.yaml** file.
```

=====================

- :class:`Aggregator <openfl.component.Aggregator>`
    `openfl.component.Aggregator <https://github.com/intel/openfl/blob/develop/openfl/component/aggregator/aggregator.py>`_

- :class:`Collaborator <openfl.component.Collaborator>`
    `openfl.component.Collaborator <https://github.com/intel/openfl/blob/develop/openfl/component/collaborator/collaborator.py>`_

- :class:`Data Loader <openfl.federated.data.loader.DataLoader>`
    `openfl.federated.data.loader.DataLoader <https://github.com/intel/openfl/blob/develop/openfl/federated/data/loader.py>`_

- :class:`Task Runner <openfl.federated.task.runner.TaskRunner>`
    `openfl.federated.task.runner.TaskRunner <https://github.com/intel/openfl/blob/develop/openfl/federated/task/runner.py>`_

- :class:`Assigner <openfl.component.Assigner>`
    `openfl.component.Assigner <https://github.com/intel/openfl/blob/develop/openfl/component/assigner/assigner.py>`_

Tasks
-----

Each task subsection contains the following:

- ``function``: The function name to call.
  The function must be the one defined in :class:`TaskRunner <openfl.federated.TaskRunner>` class.
- ``kwargs``: kwargs passed to the ``function``.

.. note::

>     See an `example <https://github.com/intel/openfl/blob/develop/openfl/federated/task/runner.py>`_ of the :class:`TaskRunner <openfl.federated.TaskRunner>` class for details.

Reviewer: May be we should use `CoreTaskRunner` example here for more details? https://github.com/intel/openfl/blob/develop/openfl/federated/task/task_runner.py

.. _running_the_federation_manual:

*******************
Bare Metal Approach
*******************

.. note::

    Ensure you have installed the |productName| package on every node (aggregator and collaborators) in the federation.

    See :ref:`install_package` for details.

You can use the `"Hello Federation" bash script <https://github.com/intel/openfl/blob/develop/tests/github/test_hello_federation.sh>`_ to quickly create a federation (an aggregator node and two collaborator nodes) to test the project pipeline.

.. literalinclude:: ../tests/github/test_hello_federation.sh
  :language: bash

However, continue with the following procedure for details in creating a federation with an aggregator-based workflow.

>     :doc:`STEP 1: Create a Workspace on the Aggregator <running_the_federation.baremetal>`

Reviewer: ```
WARNING: unknown document: running_the_federation.baremetal
```
May be we should remove `<running_the_federation.baremetal>`?

Reviewer 2: It should be source/workflow/running_the_federation.baremetal and for others running_the_federation.* links

        - Creates a federated learning workspace on one of the nodes.

>     :doc:`STEP 2: Configure the Federation <running_the_federation.certificates>`

Reviewer: ```
WARNING: unknown document: running_the_federation.certificates
```

        - Ensures each node in the federation has a valid public key infrastructure (PKI) certificate.
        - Distributes the workspace from the aggregator node to the other collaborator nodes.

>     :doc:`STEP 3: Start the Federation <running_the_federation.start_nodes>`

Reviewer: ```
 WARNING: unknown document: running_the_federation.start_nodes
```

  See the complete list of available templates.

    .. code-block:: console

       fx workspace create --prefix ${WORKSPACE_PATH}

4.  Create a workspace directory for the new federation project.

    .. code-block:: console

       fx workspace create --prefix ${WORKSPACE_PATH} --template ${WORKSPACE_TEMPLATE}

    .. note::

		You can use your own models by overwriting the Python scripts in the **src** subdirectory in the workspace directory.

5.  Change to the workspace directory.

    .. code-block:: console

        cd ${WORKSPACE_PATH}

6.  Install the workspace requirements:

    .. code-block:: console

        pip install -r requirements.txt

7.	Create an initial set of random model weights.

    .. note::

        While models can be trained from scratch, in many cases the federation performs fine-tuning of a previously trained model. For this reason, pre-trained weights for the model are stored in protobuf files on the aggregator node and passed to collaborator nodes during initialization.

        The protobuf file with the initial weights is found in **${WORKSPACE_TEMPLATE}_init.pbuf**.

    .. code-block:: console

		fx plan initialize

>     This command initializes the FL plan and autopopulates the `fully qualified domain name (FQDN) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fully_qualified_domain_name>`_ of the aggregator node. This FQDN is embedded within the FL plan so the collaborator nodes know the address of the externally accessible aggregator server to connect to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This command initializes the FL plan and auto populates the `fully qualified domain name (FQDN) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fully_qualified_domain_name>`_ of the aggregator node. This FQDN is embedded within the FL plan so the collaborator nodes know the address of the externally accessible aggregator server to connect to.
```

>     If you have connection issues with the autopopulated FQDN in the FL plan, you can do **one of the following**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you have connection issues with the auto populated FQDN in the FL plan, you can do **one of the following**:
```

>     If you have connection issues with the autopopulated FQDN in the FL plan, you can do **one of the following**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you have connection issues with the auto populated FQDN in the FL plan, you can do **one of the following**:
```

> 	- OPTION 1: override the autopopulated FQDN value with the :code:`-a` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	- OPTION 1: override the auto populated FQDN value with the :code:`-a` flag.
```

           | -d, --data_config PATH  | The data set/shard configuration file                   |
           +-------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------+

3. Repeat the earlier steps for each collaborator node in the federation.

  When all of the Collaborators connect, the Aggregator starts training. You will see log messages describing the progress of the federated training.

  When the last round of training is completed, the Aggregator stores the final weights in the protobuf file that was specified in the YAML file, which in this example is located at **save/${WORKSPACE_TEMPLATE}_latest.pbuf**.

.. _running_the_federation_docker:

********************
Docker\* \  Approach
********************

There are two ways you can run |productName| with Docker\*\.

- :ref:`Deploy a federation in a Docker container <running_the_federation_docker_base_image>`
- :ref:`Deploy the workspace in a Docker container <running_the_federation_docker_workspace>`

.. _running_the_federation_docker_base_image:

Option 1: Deploy a Federation in a Docker Container
===================================================

Prerequisites
-------------

> You have already built an |productName| image. See :doc:`../../install.docker` for details.

Reviewer: ```
WARNING: unknown document: ../../install.docker
```
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/89856652/145549367-2df6539b-0c26-497b-8d37-f5dbd101c86a.png)

.. _running_the_federation_docker_workspace:

Option 2: Deploy Your Workspace in a Docker Container
=====================================================

Prerequisites
-------------

You have already set up a TaskRunner and run :code:`fx plan initialize` in the workspace directory. See :ref:`Create a Workspace on the Aggregator <creating_workspaces>` for details.

Procedure
---------

1. Build an image with the workspace you created.

    .. code-block:: console

       fx workspace dockerize

    By default, the image is saved as **WORKSPACE_NAME_image.tar** in the workspace directory.

2. The image can be distributed and run on other nodes without any environment preparation.

    .. parsed-literal::

        docker run -it --rm \\
            --network host \\
            -v user_data_folder:/home/user/workspace/data \\
            ${WORKSPACE_IMAGE_NAME} \\
            bash

    .. note::

        The FL plan should be initialized with the FQDN of the node where the aggregator container will be running.

3. Generate public key infrastructure (PKI) certificates for all collaborators and the aggregator. See :doc:`/source/utilities/pki` for details.

> 4. :doc:`Start the federation <running_the_federation.start_nodes>`.

Reviewer: ```
WARNING: unknown document: running_the_federation.start_nodes
```
This link does not work, 
```suggestion
4. :ref:`Start the federation <running_the_federation.start_nodes>`.
```
May be this suggestion should work correctly
